# iNaturalist 2017 CV model to recognize Invasive alien species

Our planet hosts many million species of plants and animals, from which many might look identical. Due to their visual similarity an expert is needed to classify species in the natural world. In the last decade, computer vision (CV) has made significant advancement because of deep learning (DL) algorithms [1]. The image classification of ImageNet dataset precision has risen from 50% in 2011 up to around 88% for Top-1 and 98% of Top-5 accuracy. Top-1 accuracy is the conventional accuracy, which means that the model answer (the one with the highest probability) must be exactly the expected answer. Top-5 accuracy means that any of 5 highest model probability answers must match the expected answer. The iNaturalist Competition is a large-scale species classification competition where the goal is to improve the state of the art in automatic image classification for real-world data [2]. The iNaturalist Challenge 2017 dataset contains 5,089 species, with a combined training and validation set of 675,000 images that have been collected and verified by multiple users from inaturalist.org.

The research objective of the work presented here is to explore the possibility to enhance an editing tool (a mobile application) to recognize Invasive Alien Species (IAS) in Europe with CV capabilities based on iNaturalist 2017 model. The initial idea is to test the iNaturalist 2017 CV model accuracy on an already available European IAS dataset. The European IAS dataset contains 1192 images of 59 distinct IAS gathered by 696 submitted observations. The performed analysis showed that the iNaturalist 2017 CV model can recognize 18 IAS. The IAS sub-dataset of these 18 species contains 65 quality controlled images. The iNaturalist CV 2017 model processed these 65 IAS images and produced results with 35.4% Top-1 and 47.7% Top-5 accuracy. The IAS recognition results are visualized and explained. The paper discusses how to include iNaturalist CV model in IAS Europe App, explore CV model fine-tuning strategies, discuss the current dataset limitations, and possible future cooperation with wider scientific communities. The Python research code is freely available on GitHub [3].

